Ms. Fan.
I agree.
Then drink it while it's warm.
What I mean is…
about marrying into your family.
I agree.
Good.
Once we bow before the hall and wed,
we'll tell the world you've married in.
When the house deed is transferred
and the money flows again,
I'll hire the finest physician in town.
The best medicine there is.
When you're healed,
whether you stay or go
will be your choice.
And you're not worried that once I leave,
your uncle will come back
to seize the house?
With the deed in my name,
he can't threaten me.
Besides, if you do leave,
I'll simply say you had
urgent matters elsewhere.
Who would know otherwise?
You've really thought this through.
And if you decide to stay,
I'll provide for you.
Why?
You may not realize this,
but butchers earn quite well.
That's not what I meant.
If I were left crippled,
you'd still keep me?
For what?
Because you're good-looking.
Fan Changyu,
how could you just blurt that out?
There are handsome men
everywhere in this world.
-I…
-But I carried you out of the snow.
If, once you recover,
you have nowhere to go--
When I am well, I will take my leave.
I will not overstay my welcome.
Very well.
I'll be going.
Ms. Fan.
I will repay you someday
for saving my life.
If there is anything you desire,
name it.
I have no grand desire.
You agreeing to a marriage in name only
and helping me keep my home
is already more than enough.
This arrangement is merely repayment
for shelter.
If you have a wish, think bigger.
A wish…
Bigger…
Then I will think bigger.
I want to rebuild my father's pig pens.
Fence off a larger plot of land.
Raise 20 or 30 pigs!
You may think even bigger.
Then 100.
I meant
something beyond pigs.
One hundred pigs would fetch
over a hundred taels of silver.
Is that not grand enough?
Then… 200.
Wait. I'd never finish slaughtering them.
I see now.
Let's seal it.
-Good day, Changyu.
Good day.
‎Look, there's more!
Changyu!
Run along now.
So pretty.
Ready.
All right.
One, two.
Thank you, miss.
That'll do. Here.
-Mrs. Wang.
-Changyu.
Ms. Wang. Ms. Zhang.
WANG'S BRAISED MEATS
ELEGANT EMBROIDERY HOUSE
Madam.
My mother once stored fabric here
for my wedding robes.
-Come this way.
-Thank you.
Yes, there is fabric reserved.
Just enough for one full bridal set.
Can it be made
into a groom's robe instead?
A groom's robe?
I thought that voice sounds familiar.
Isn't that our Changyu?
Mrs. Chen.
I heard from Mrs. Zhao
you are joining the wedding rush.
When's the auspicious day?
Seven days from now.
You're only ordering wedding clothes now?
That may be cutting it close.
Since word of conscription
in Chongzhou spread,
everyone planning to wed is scrambling.
All hoping to leave an heir
before the draft.
My shop hands can barely keep up.
Mrs. Zhao said
the groom is quite handsome.
I suppose so.
At least I'm not at a loss.
Mrs. Chen, please hurry the work.
I'll pay extra.
I'm not asking you for extra silver.
Don't worry.
I helped your mother choose
that wedding fabric and kept it here.
She longed to see you married.
Mrs. Zhao also said
the groom is some distant relation
from Chongzhou.
Since he's from Chongzhou,
does he know
whether Marquis Wu'an truly fell?
Marquis Wu'an is dead?
-Are you sure?
-Marquis Wu'an?
That's what people have been saying.
Marquis Wu'an is dead.
Dead in Chongzhou, not even bones left.
Just like his father.
Nonsense!
How could he be dead?
I'll smash your teeth in!
-Should I give him another?
-Beat him!
HALL OF EXALTED VIRTUE
Dayin has faced Northern Jue
on the battlefield for years.
Marquis Wu'an, Xie Zheng,
a hero of his age,
now fallen without even remains to bury.
This is a wound to the realm.
I intend to posthumously confer upon him
the title Duke Yizhong.
EMPEROR QI MIN OF DAYIN
Grant the Xie army 1,000 taels of gold.
What say my ministers?
Your Majesty is wise.
Marquis Wu'an guarded
the vital northwest passes.
Peerless in valor.
In over a century of our dynasty,
only Xie Zheng has borne that title.
To now elevate him as Duke Yizhong
reveals Your Majesty's boundless virtue.
A blessing for the people.
In his youth, he led troops
to wash away the shame of Jinzhou.
The Northern Jue trembled at his name.
Our generals will gladly
lay down their lives
to repay Your Majesty's grace.
I concur.
Very well. Issue my decree.
Court is adjourned for three days.
We shall don plain garments
and hold mourning rites.
Let the entire realm grieve.
We obey.
Your Majesty, I arrived late.
Though you're unwell, Chancellor Wei,
you still attend court.
A blessing for Dayin.
Bring him a seat.
CHANCELLOR WEI YAN OF DAYIN
Where were we?
I intend to confer upon Xie Zheng
the title Duke Yizhong,
reward the Xie army with 1,000 taels,
and declare national mourning.
Chancellor Wei, your view?
Marquis Wu'an did achieve great merit.
However, this concerns
the situation at the front.
If the entire nation enters mourning,
it may dampen the army's morale.
At that moment, Northern Jue
and the forces of Prince Changxin
may seize the advantage.
Chancellor,
Marquis Wu'an died in the prime of life
for this country.
His Majesty's act is born
of mercy for an untimely death,
a true mark of his sacred benevolence.
Though some scholars
criticize his slaughter at Jinzhou,
when weighing merit against fault,
his merit far outweighs his excesses.
To reward him now
demonstrates clear judgment.
It will rally hearts.
How could it weaken the army?
Word has it Marquis Wu'an fell in battle.
Yet to this day, no body has been found.
I chose not to report it.
To mislead the enemy.
As long as his death
is not officially announced,
the enemy cannot be certain.
They will not dare move lightly.
Grand Tutor Li, you may excel
at divining His Majesty's intentions,
but in matters of warfare and strategy,
you would do well to study further.
You are ever deliberate, Chancellor Wei.
I stand corrected.
Chancellor Wei.
Chancellor Wei,
please accept my condolences.
You are most thoughtful, Grand Tutor.
Now that Marquis Wu'an
no longer holds Yanzhou,
who will command the Yanzhou army?
The Yanzhou army serves Great Yin.
Any capable man of court
may be sent there.
Yanzhou guards the frontier.
It must not be mishandled.
Since you've already planned it out,
I needn't have worried.
I shall take my leave.
The old fox shows such concern
for the northwest.
He must be angling
to meddle in border command.
-Has Xie Zheng's body been recovered?
-Not yet.
Any word from the young lord
regarding Marquis Wu'an's disappearance?
None.
That day, we were too close
to He Jingyuan's territory.
We dared not alert him.
I have dispatched men
to continue the search in secret.
Send more.
-Urge them to act swiftly.
-Yes.
His fate must be confirmed.
But more crucial still is that token.
-Yes.
-Inform the Xuan-ranked agents.
If they fail to find it,
-they are not to return.
-Understood.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
Go away!
Go!
Stay back! Go!
Go away! Go!
Go away!
Where did this wolf come from?
It nearly took my hair ribbon.
Where's my shoe?
This young lady truly
does not fear the cold.
In such heavy snow,
walking barefoot on the road.
Something must have happened to her.
Ask where she lives. Give her a ride.
Miss.
My master sees you struggle in this snow.
He would like to offer you a ride.
Where is your home?
That won't be necessary. Thank you.
Miss, please wait.
My surname is Li. I mean you no harm.
You'll ruin your feet
walking barefoot in this weather.
Allow us to take you home.
Then I thank you, sir.
You're most kind.
But you're sitting in the cold.
I feel bad.
Think nothing of it.
Your stockings are soaked.
Warm yourself first.
I've sat inside long enough.
I needed some air.
Changyu, you're home already?
Changyu.
What… What happened to you?
Ran into a wolf on the road.
Lost a shoe escaping.
Luckily these two gentlemen
brought me back.
It was nothing.
Thank you both.
It's freezing out.
Please come inside and warm yourselves.
Madam,
let Ms. Fan change her shoes first.
We have pressing matters.
We must take our leave.
Then thank you, Master Li.
Forgive the trouble.
Gentlemen, wait.
These chestnuts were just roasted.
-Let me pack some for you.
-No need.
Her roasted chestnuts are the finest!
They truly are.
Do take some for the road.
Then we shall accept with thanks.
Much obliged, madam.
-All right, wait here a moment.
-Madam…
Why did you do that?
This is simply how villagers
show gratitude.
We must blend in with them.
It makes your investigation smoother.
Does it not?
Just admit you wanted chestnuts.
I saw nothing.
Come in.
I… I…
I went to Mrs. Chen's to arrange
the wedding clothes today.
Then I realized I forgot
to take your measurements.
Come inside.
You look slender,
but your shoulders are broad.
Like my father's.
Shoulders, one chi eight.
Waist, two chi one.
Leg length, three chi seven.
What is it?
Nothing.
A wolf chased me this morning.
I may have twisted my ankle.
Sit. Let me see it.
No need.
Mr. Zhao will return shortly.
I'll apply some medicine myself.
Sit. Let me look at it.
Before it aches again tonight.
-Is it good?
-It's delicious.
For reasons unknown,
those mysterious men stopped
once they reached Lin'an.
After that, they vanished entirely.
Shall I speak to the local magistrate?
Teacher specifically instructed
that this must remain private.
My lord,
you've searched night after night
for Marquis Wu'an
and still no word.
If you ask me,
it's hardly rare for bodies to vanish
in times of war.
I cannot believe
Marquis Wu'an would fall so easily.
If those men lingered
and did not withdraw,
then Marquis Wu'an must be in Lin'an.
It's dislocated.
Ah! That hurts!
Of course it hurts.
I thought it was only a sprain.
Bear it.
There.
My lord,
fresh-roasted chestnuts.
Still hot.
Eat while they're warm.
-Thank you, madam.
-Madam,
just now, I heard Ms. Fan
cry out upstairs.
Is something wrong?
That's Changyu's husband.
Young couple,
probably just teasing each other.
Her husband?
Why did he not come down to receive her?
He's injured.
Not fit to move about.
-Good, isn't it?
-Very good, madam.
The northwest is in chaos.
I've heard
many wounded refugees from Chongzhou
have married locals
to gain residency.
Ms. Fan's husband
isn't from Chongzhou, is he?
He's a distant kinsman of mine.
From Yanzhou.
Yanzhou.
It's truly better.
It doesn't hurt at all.
I told you to slow down.
Now look, you're choking.
Madam, might I trouble you for some tea?
Of course.
I was so focused on food,
I forgot about drink. Please.
-Come in for some tea.
-Thank you.
Are there guests downstairs?
Oh no.
I left our two benefactors waiting below.
Forgive the humble tea. Please make do.
Ms. Fan was just married?
Well…
He's married into my family.
Married in?
Poor child.
He only just arrived from Yanzhou,
ran into bandits,
was robbed and injured.
Fortunately, Changyu took him in.
She even slaughtered a pig to sell
for his medical fees.
Slaughtered a pig?
Changyu is formidable.
One slap and the pig drops.
She's joking.
Ms. Fan is truly righteous.
Indeed, righteous.
No need to escort us farther.
Here.
Take care.
My lord,
I fear we are chasing shadows.
Marquis Wu'an once refused
even a princess.
Would such a man
marry into a butcher's household
and reset her ankle?
Perhaps I have overreached.
You have not slept in days over this.
Rest on the journey back to Jizhou.
Leave the rest to me.
Let's go.
A carriage from Jizhou.
He Jingyuan's people.
What measurements did I take
for Yan Zheng?
Shoulders…
one chi eight.
Waist, two chi one.
Leg length,
three chi seven.
Yan Zheng.
Yan Zheng…
YAN ZHENG
XIE ZHENG
What is she doing?
Has she found out?
Who is it?
It's me.
I need to speak with you.
Come in.
I've memorized your measurements.
I'll send them to the tailor.
Could you stay up a little longer tonight?
Wait for me. I need you.
There's something we must do together.
Together?
You're a man. I'm a woman.
I cannot do it alone.
That seems improper.
You're about to marry into my family.
What's the harm?
It's settled.
Mr. and Mrs. Zhao must not know.
Keep this between us.
Hurry.
They'll close the gates soon.
Come on.
What is it you want me to do?
Careful. Don't let anyone see. Follow me.
On your knees.
This is the matter
we were to handle together?
My mother said
if you visit a grave at midnight,
you must bring a man.
A man brimming with vigor.
That is you.
MARQUIS WU'AN XIE ZHENG
So that is why
she was writing in the sand earlier.
The authorities have issued
no mourning decree.
Private offerings could invite trouble.
Midnight is safest.
And this spirit tablet…
When you were coughing blood so violently,
I thought you would not survive.
So I carved it for you.
Thank you.
There's no need.
It was never used in the end.
Marquis Wu'an fell on the battlefield.
I meant to set up a spirit tablet for him.
Turns out your name
could be altered a little and still pass.
Yes.
It worked out perfectly.
Huanghuali wood too.
No reason to waste it.
By the way. You fled from Chongzhou.
Do you know how Marquis Wu'an died?
I don't.
You're not kin to him.
Why honor him with a tablet?
Isn't the common talk
that Marquis Wu'an was bloodthirsty,
a demon who butchered cities?
Nonsense.
My father said
he led the army
and retook Jinzhou from Northern Jue.
He avenged his father
and avenged Dayin.
As for slaughtering a city,
if the enemy could do it,
why couldn't he?
You truly think that?
My father used to say,
in 200 years of Dayin,
how many Marquis Wu'ans have there been?
He reclaimed Jinzhou.
The 12 Liaodong prefectures,
lost through decades of war
and countless fallen generals,
were restored by him.
The scholars of today
all condemn him for Jinzhou.
Those learned men
call him ruthless and cruel.
But 16 years ago,
the soldiers and common folk
who died in Jinzhou,
were they not innocent?
Old General Xie died standing,
so he might keep his dignity.
The Northern Jue
disemboweled him and left his body
hanging on the city wall.
He was Marquis Wu'an's father!
To avenge one's father is only right.
Without Marquis Wu'an,
who else
could have held the northwest?
Why are you looking at me like that?
Am I wrong?
You've quite the nerve.
It's just you and me.
That's why I dare speak.
Marquis Wu'an above,
this humble woman, Fan Changyu,
together with my husband Yan Zheng,
have come to see you off.
If your spirit lingers,
watch over the people of Great Yin.
Grant them peace and safety.
And if you meet my parents,
please give them my regards.
If you have a wish,
kneel and speak it.
He gave his life for the nation.
You lose nothing by bowing.
May the fog clear soon.
May the truth
be revealed to the world.
XIGU ALLEY
TOFU
Changyu.
My braid's crooked.
Come here. Let me see.
I'm here.
Come.
It's fine.
Make do today.
After I sell the pork,
I'll buy you sweets. Deal?
Go get dressed.
Careful.
-Morning, Changyu.
-Morning.
-Hard at work already?
-Morning, madam.
-Morning, Changyu.
-Morning.
-Changyu.
-Morning, Changyu.
-Morning.
PORK
Changyu,
are you giving out
braised pig heart today?
Not today.
The pig heart is for sale now.
We only gave it out on opening day.
We won't be giving it away anymore.
If you want some, it's 30 mace a jin.
The other stall
gives braised offal free with meat.
Why are you charging?
Which stall?
Guo the butcher's.
Buy meat, get braised offal.
Buy meat, get braised offal!
Those cuts look fresh.
Come, take a look!
Buy meat, get braised offal.
So, are you giving it or not?
If not, I'll go there.
Of course we'll give.
Then I'll stay.
Two jin of shoulder.
Mrs. Tao, your meat.
-And here's your braised pig heart.
-All right.
Here you go, miss.
-Your meat.
-Thanks.
That Guo is slippery.
Told you not to give freebies,
then started doing it himself.
His cousin works as a clerk
at the county yamen.
Watch yourself.
-I will.
-Look at that meat. Fine, isn't it?
Go buy from Fan's.
Her lean cuts are redder,
and her braise smells better.
This looks half-dead.
-Hey. What did you say?
-Come on, it's over there!
You think their braise is liquid gold?
Good thing you're back.
Let's see how long he can keep handing out
those salted scraps!
Talking about me, are you? Fine.
We'll see.
Mrs. Yin, where's my noodles?
What's the rush?
You're not on the gallows.
-They're coming!
-I am hungry.
Hurry up.
Changyu, I'm heading back.
If that Guo gives you trouble again,
tell me. I'm not afraid of him.
Neither am I.
See you.
-How much do you need?
-Two jin.
-Make mine two as well.
-All right.
Foolish bird. Fell for such a crude trap.
Up you go.
Fly.
WU AND QI HAVE ARRIVED
AT LIN'AN'S FOUR SEASONS BOOKSHOP
Hurry up.
While Changyu is out,
search the place thoroughly.
Check outside. See if anyone's around.
-All right.
-I'll check upstairs.
The back courtyard's clear.
Kitchen's empty.
Nothing upstairs either.
Now's not the time to complicate things.
There's nothing valuable here anyway.
Listen.
If we don't find that land deed today,
we're finished.
Search properly.
Understood.
INTEGRITY, PRUDENCE, DILIGENCE
You seem busy today.
I won't keep you long.
About the property transfer…
Could I trouble you--
Say no more.
Your uncle
has already submitted his petition.
Court will convene in ten days
at the latest.
You'd best be ready.
There's something else.
On my wedding day,
please come early and join us for wine.
All right, Changyu.
You move fast.
Congratulations in advance.
I'll be there.
YAMEN
There's another favor I'd like to ask.
My husband's silver and travel papers
were taken by bandits.
He's about to marry into my family.
I'd like to help him
reissue a travel pass.
With the authorities
cracking down on refugees,
getting new papers now won't be easy.
But your father once helped me greatly.
I'll see it done.
Thank you, Mr. Wang.
Good thing you're at the yamen.
Think nothing of it.
Consider it my gift to you.
Check up there carefully.
Found it!
Over here.
HAVE A FULL MEAL
Over here!
Look at this.
She stuffed it behind that wall hanging.
Had me tearing the place apart.
Damn. Finally got it.
All right.
-Let's go.
-Stop.
Where did this one come from?
-Did you see him?
-You didn't notice him?
Put the deed down.
What did you say?
I said,
leave the land deed,
and you can walk out of here.
A cripple trying to play hero?
He's lame.
You're a cripple.
You can barely stand straight.
And you think you can fight?
Believe me, I'll break that good leg too.
Go on.
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang